FAQ: why are flakes controversial (#546)
NixOS/nix.dev: source/recipes/faq.md

## Nix

### Why are flakes controversial?

Originally proposed in [RFC 49](https://github.com/NixOS/rfcs/pull/49), flakes have been in development since 2019.
Nix introduced the implementation as its first [experimental feature] in 2021.

[experimental feature]: https://nixos.org/manual/nix/stable/contributing/experimental-features.html

The subject is considered controversial among Nix users and developers in terms of design, development processes, and community governance.
In particular:
- The RFC was closed without conclusion, and some design and implementation issues are not yet resolved.

>   Examples include the notion of a global [flake registry], the [impossibility of parameterising flakes](https://github.com/NixOS/nix/issues/2861), and implementations of the new command line interface and flakes being [closely tied](https://discourse.nixos.org/t/2023-03-06-nix-team-meeting-minutes-38/26056#cli-stabilisation-announcement-draft-4).

Author: ```suggestion
  Examples include the notion of a global [flake registry], the [impossibility of parameterising flakes](https://github.com/NixOS/nix/issues/2861), and implementations of the new command line interface and flakes being [tightly coupled](https://discourse.nixos.org/t/2023-03-06-nix-team-meeting-minutes-38/26056#cli-stabilisation-announcement-draft-4).
```

- The original implementation introduced [regressions](https://discourse.nixos.org/t/nix-2-4-and-what-s-next/16257) in the [Nix 2.4 release](https://nixos.org/manual/nix/stable/release-notes/rl-2.4.html).
- New Nix users were and still are encouraged by various individuals to adopt flakes despite there being no concrete plan or timeline for stabilisation.

[flake registry]: https://nixos.org/manual/nix/stable/command-ref/new-cli/nix3-registry.html

This led to a situation where the stable interface was only sparsely maintained for multiple years, and repeatedly suffered breakages due to ongoing development.
Meanwhile, the new interface was adopted widely enough for evolving its design without negatively affecting users to become very challenging.

As of the [2022 community survey](https://discourse.nixos.org/t/2022-nix-survey-results/18983), more than half of the user base, a third of which were relative beginners, relied on experimental features.

> {term}`Nixpkgs` as a contrasting example, which, while featuring a `flake.nix` for compatibility, does not depend on Nix experimental features in its code base.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{term}`Nixpkgs`, as a contrasting example, while featuring a `flake.nix` for compatibility, does not depend on Nix experimental features in its code base.
```

Or

```suggestion
As a contrasting example, while featuring a `flake.nix` for additional compatibility, {term}`Nixpkgs` does not depend on Nix experimental features in its code base.
```

The `, which,` makes it pretty hard to read IMO
